What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

It creates the .git folder, which will be able to track all your changes

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The working directory holds all files in your folder, while the staging area specifies the files that will be grouped for a commit to the repository

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

by using git status and git diff --staged, you can ensure that only one logical change is being made before a commit is actually made

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Using branches are useful when experimenting with new features, especially large fixes that may require a working version while the branch is being developed. It ensures that the working code is not affected by the experimental features. This will also allow multiple features or tasks to be done at the same time without affecting the working code. Once all features, or whichever features to be included are tested, they can be merged later.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

Diagrams helps to paint the picture of how each commit is related to another, and also helps to identify reachable commits from unreachable commits

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

Merging two branches combines the changes made between the two branches. Showing this in a diagram helps to better visualize how the changes are handled, and how they are eventually combined together via the merge action

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Automatic merge can be good and a fast and easy way to merge changes together, however, they do not allow you to see the changes that are actually being merged. Manual merging allows you to see the changes that are made, and handle any conflicts that may be present.